DOCSP-35949 write operations upsert (#2815)
jenssegers/laravel-mongodb: docs/fundamentals/write-operations.txt

model objects and apply updates to all matching documents:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/write-operations/WriteOperationsTest.php
   :language: php
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin model update multiple
   :end-before: end model update multiple

When the ``update()`` method succeeds, the operation returns the number of
documents updated.

If the retrieve part of the call does not match any documents in the
collection, {+odm-short+} returns the following error:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Error: Call to a member function update() on null

.. _laravel-modify-documents-upsert:

Update or Insert in a Single Operation
--------------------------------------

An **upsert** operation lets you perform an update or insert in a single
operation. This operation streamlines the task of updating a document or
inserting one if it does not exist.

To specify an upsert in an ``update()`` method, set the ``upsert`` option to
``true`` as shown in the following code example:

.. code-block:: none
   :emphasize-lines: 4
   :copyable: false

   YourModel::where(<match criteria>)
      ->update(
          [<update data>],

>           ['upsert' => true]);

Reviewer: You can display valid PHP, that will not break the PHP code highlighter.

Also, our coding standard is to place the closing parenthesis on a new line when arguments are split by line.
```suggestion
.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 4
   :copyable: false

   YourModel::where(/* match criteria */)
      ->update(
          [/* update data */],
          ['upsert' => true],
      );
```

Author: Thanks, I'll try it out!
Quick question: does the coding standard use trailing commas?

Reviewer: Yes we use trailing comma when args are split per line.

   :language: php
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin model update multiple
   :end-before: end model update multiple

When the ``update()`` method succeeds, the operation returns the number of
documents updated.

If the retrieve part of the call does not match any documents in the
collection, {+odm-short+} returns the following error:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Error: Call to a member function update() on null

.. _laravel-modify-documents-upsert:

Update or Insert in a Single Operation
--------------------------------------

An **upsert** operation lets you perform an update or insert in a single
operation. This operation streamlines the task of updating a document or
inserting one if it does not exist.

To specify an upsert in an ``update()`` method, set the ``upsert`` option to
``true`` as shown in the following code example:

.. code-block:: php
   :emphasize-lines: 4
   :copyable: false

   YourModel::where(<match criteria>)
      ->update(
          [<update data>],
          [upsert => true]);

When the ``update()`` method is chained to a query, it performs one of the
following actions:

> - If the query matches documents, the ``update()`` method  updates the matching
>   documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the query matches documents, the ``update()`` method updates the matching
  documents.
```

- If the query matches zero documents, the ``update()`` method inserts a
  document that contains the update data and the equality match criteria data.

Upsert Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This example shows how to pass the ``upsert`` option to the  ``update()``

> method to perform an update or insert in a single operation. It also includes
> example results in which it performs an insert.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
method to perform an update or insert in a single operation. It also displays
the document produced when the operation results in an insert.
```

Author: Good suggestion on word choice ("displays"). Will reword to make it more concise.

The following example shows how to perform an update or insert in a single

> operation by passing the ``upsert`` option to the ``update()`` method. The

Reviewer 2: S: remove this first sentence as it is repetitive with the prev paragraph

example output shows the result if the match criteria passed to the

> ``where()`` method matches zero documents in the collection. Click the

Reviewer 2: S: the second sentence is also slightly repetitive. Could you merge the two paragraphs instead?
